Sorry for keeping you waiting. Have you resolved it then?
I’ve been looking into it since then,
but I can’t think of another one...
Yes, it’s a little special.
There are several international conventions on copyright,
such as the Berne Convention.
Each country member of these conventions is supposed to protect each other’s copyrighted works
in the same way they do in their own countries.
I’ve only heard of the Berne Convention.
How many countries are members?
181 countries.
So many? It’s a significant convention!
But are there that many countries in the world?
Come on, what are you talking about? Even I know that.
I know there’re about 200 countries in the world.
There are currently 196 countries.
That’s why it’s a convention that most countries are members of.
Yes, I will explain about the Convention.
The Berne Convention is
an international Convention on copyright,
in which the works of citizens of a country that is a party to the
Convention are protected by all member countries.
It means that Japan protects the music of foreign composers.
That’s right. The primary content of the Convention is like this.
The first is the principle of automatic protection,
which means that “music by foreign composers,”
as Kasumi mentioned earlier,
does not need to be registered in any way
to be protected in Japan.
That’s what the Japanese Copyright Law was originally about,
right?
You’re studying well.
The Copyright Law was enacted in Japan in 1899,
and the Berne Convention was signed simultaneously,
so, I think the system was adopted then.
The second is national treatment.
The Berne Convention signatory states must also give
citizens of other convention signatories equal
or greater protection than the copyright protection
for their citizens.
The third, protection term is for when the author is still alive,
and the copyright must be guaranteed 50 years after death.
They cleared it for 70 years after death in accordance
with Japanese and American domestic laws.
Fair use in the United States, which has been a hot topic,
is fair and can be used without the copyright owner’s license
for things
that do not unfairly harm the copyright owner’s interest.
The Japanese Copyright Law does not have fair use,
so it doesn’t apply in Japan.
Conversely however, fair use can apply to Japanese copyrighted
works in the United States.
I see. So, it seems like everything is okay just as
Kasumi and Naoya found out.
What did you mean when you said earlier that further
consideration is needed?
For older works in the United States and the United Kingdom,
it is sometimes necessary to consider “wartime extensions.”
I’ve never heard of wartime extensions.
During World War II, Japan and the U.S. were enemies, right?
That’s why it’s been said that American works were
not protected in Japan during that time.
For this reason, a system that seeks to recover the benefits of copyright owners lost in the war
by adding that period to the ordinary copyright protection term is called “wartime extensions.”
Ah, it’s a bit complicated.
If the copyrighted works of the enemy countries are not
protected during the war, then it seems that we are both
in the same situation.
In fact, various organizations are campaigning
to abolish this system.
I see. In the case of this song, it’s been 75 years since the
composer died. However,
considering wartime extensions,
it’s still under copyright protection.
That’s too bad. But if that’s the current rule,
then nothing can be done about it.
Yeah, I guess so. Let’s give up and find a different song.